AGENT-DRAFT: GKO-2006 — mTLS Certificate Management and Validation [code+dev-draft] (#1326)
gravitee-io-labs/beta-docs: docs/gko/4.11/release-information/release-notes/gko-4.11.md

# GKO 4.11

## Highlights

## Breaking Changes

## New Features

<!-- PIPELINE:GKO-2006 -->
#### **mTLS Client Certificate Management**

> * Administrators can now upload, validate, and rotate client certificates for application-level mutual TLS authentication directly through the Management Console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* GKO Application CRD now support multiple client certificate with validity and rotation management for application-level mutual TLS.
* Administrators can now upload, validate, and rotate authentication directly through the Management Console (for application managed outside of GKO)
```

> * Supports PKCS7 certificate bundles, scheduled certificate activation, and grace-period rotation to prevent downtime during certificate updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Supports scheduled certificate activation, and grace-period rotation to prevent downtime during certificate updates.
```

> * Certificates are validated on upload (SHA-256 fingerprint, expiration date, uniqueness) and progress through lifecycle states: Scheduled, Active, Active with End Date, and Revoked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Certificates are validated on upload (SHA-256 fingerprint, uniqueness) and progress through lifecycle states: Scheduled, Active, Active with End Date, and Revoked.
```

> * Requires APIM 4.11 or above and a TLS-enabled gateway endpoint with an mTLS plan configured for the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Requires APIM 4.11 or above and an API with mTLS plan subscribed for the application.
```
